[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So what we're gonna do now
is we're gonna talk about authentication,
which I really, I'm a big fan of.
I'm not a security expert, but
I like authentication for some reason.
I don't know why, I just like it.
I like that it sucks and
it's really hard [LAUGH]
and it just feels good when it works.
And, I always have people
try to break my stuff.
See if you can get in here.
I built this one system one time,
before I knew much about authentications.
It was reading all these blog posts and
tutorials, and I built this one system,
to the point where I
couldn't get in myself.
I didn't know how to get in my own,
I had to drop the entire database and
all this stuff because it was so
well protected I couldn't get in it.
And I just wasn't knowledgeable enough
to figure out what I was doing wrong.
So, that was pretty funny to me.
So, there are many ways to
protect your API, right?
What's a typical way you
would protect an API?
>> Speaker 2: Everything needs
a header with some password or
something, like a basic off.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, so a basic off.
That's one way, any other way?
I know we got some back-end people here,
.net experience.
How do you guys protect your APIs?
>> Speaker 2: Cookies.
>> Speaker 1: Cookies, exactly.
I was wondering if somebody was gonna say
that cuz, I know we know cookies in here.
Yeah, so cookies is probably the thing
that people use for authentication,
authorization, identification, right?
So that's the thing.
So you have your cookies and
then you'd have a session store,
where you store your sessions, some key
value pair, maybe your using Redis, or
whatever you're using,
you have some session store.
Sorry, I really have something in my eye,
if you see me wiping up here.
Probably looks like I'm crying,
I'm not [LAUGH],
my eye is really bothering me for
some reason.
So, yeah,
you have cookies in a session store.
And a session store is just
like a key value pair of,
who's logged in right now, right.
So that when they make a request,
those cookies are automatically still in
the header and we can de-serialize
those cookies, match it against
something in the session store, like aw,
it's this person, hey, how's it going?
That's what we normally do, and that
works, there's nothing wrong with that.
Who here has done mobile
development with Android of iOS?
All right, then you probably know that
either you just didn't deal with cookies
on iPhone or if you did,
it was really, really hard.
Not as easy as the web.
So what we're gonna be using this
JSON web tokens or JWT for short.
It's pronounced jot,
like j-o-t, but it's JWT.
So JSON web tokens or JWT.
So JWT is an open standard
that's heavily used.
Here's a link I included
you can click on it,
and we'll be playing around
with some stuff in here.
This is a website built by
this company called Alt Zero,
who have authentication as a service,
and they do a whole bunch of JWT stuff.
They have this really nice
site where you can decode,
and encode, and mess around with different
algorithms, with the JSON web tokens, and
look at all the libraries for
other languages.
It's pretty cool.
But, we'll be using JSON web tokens,
like I said, it's an open standard that's
heavily used so it is not like some
corporate company came up with this.
It's an open thing,
it's collective, it's open source.
So, because we're using a token approach,
we don't need to keep track of
who's signed in with a session store or
have cookies.
So there is no session store anymore,
there are no cookies anymore.
Does that sound dangerous to anybody?
Yeah, that's what I thought too the first
time, I was like, that sounds incredibly
dangerous, that doesn't make any sense,
why would I do that?
I want the server to be a source of
truth to figure out who's signed in and
who's not.
If I leave it up to the client,
then they'll get me every time, right?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: I know, but you'll see.
>> Speaker 1: So, the json web token will
be sent on every single request, because
rest is stateless and we know not of the
previous request because it's stateless.
So, we don't know who you were
the last time you made a request.
If you don't send us a token every
single time to this protected resource,
then you're just not gonna get it even
though we gave it to you a second ago.
They gave it to you a second ago
because you had your json web token,
this request you didn't, so
you're just not gonna get it, right.
It's an easy thing, give us a token
that works and is valid, and
maybe we might even check that
token see if it's a real user.
And then, if you have their appropriate
identification authorizations then we'll
give you the resource.
So like I said, the token since
we don't have session store,
we don't have cookies or
anything like that,
the token has to be stored on the client
that is requesting the resources.
So if the client was a web
browser in this case,
we would store the json web token on the
client, somewhere where it can persist.
And that's probably gonna be local
storage local storage, right?
Or, local storage is the common,
you guys know what I'm talking about,
like you open up the browser and
you click on Resources.
You get all this stuff over here.
Local Storage, Session Storage,
Cookies, Application Cache for
offline applications.
Web SQL,
which is like a database in your browser.
The newer index, sorry,
index DV is the newer Web SQL.
So Local Storage is like a key
value pair store for your browser.
So, this is where you would
store your json web token.
You give it a key, give it a value,
and it will be there specifically for
this browser.
Cookies store is kind of
the same thing but not really.
So that's where we store our tokens,
right on the client, put them right there.
Or at least that's where the client
will store their tokens,
the server doesn't care where you
do the tokens, it's just like,
I gave you a token, if you want something
from me, give me the token back.
That's it, it's a handshake.
Note, tokens can be used for OAuth2.
They work, you can replace
the tokens you normally use for
OAuth2 with JSON web tokens,
they work the same way.
It's pretty cool actually.
And they're actually really easy to
implement, at least in JavaScript.
So no, we will not be going over
the algorithms behind all this stuff, so
if you're some security person, and
you really dig messing around with SHAs
and how that stuff works, and the time and
complexity, and all that good stuff,
we won't be doing that.
I'm not a computer scientist,
I'm not a security expert.
We can talk about it, but we will not
be going over that stuff in detail.
Besides, this website right here,
like I said,
does a pretty good job of telling
you all about that stuff.